Hey. Hey. Hey. Where's the Q&A?
Oh, right. I lost track of time. What year is it?
How are you and Lady Grey doing during lockdown? We're fine, though we have become real little
homebody bots, even more so than normal, after we pulled up the drawbridge of Castle Grey
and settled into our cozy quarantine. But this Q&A is getting ahead of itself.
Hello internet, I hope you're doing alright. Lockdown is a weird, different time for all
of us. And I know I promised this Q&A a while ago, but the problem has been because all
my videos take a long time to make, even Q&A videos, I couldn't know into what state of
the world this final video would set sail. A new dawn rising, or an apocalyptic night
setting? Impossible to know, so let me first give an answer to an unasked question.
How do you make big decisions under uncertainty? For all decisions great and small, two things
are true. One, there are no solutions, only trade-offs. And two, the fog of the future
hides vital information. This second point might sound so obvious it's not worth discussing,
but it's often forgotten when looking back at decisions you've already made, giving a
distorted perspective that decisions were clearer than they really were. When the reality
is chiding yourself on a decision you should have made is sort of pointless, unless you're
trying to learn something new for future decisions. And for something that looks like a novel,
global pandemic out in the fog, well, you're not going to have much information at hand,
and much of what you will have will be contradictory. So what to do? It's often advised to make
a pro and con list when deciding, which is better than nothing I guess, but the format
sort of implies each good thing is about as good as each bad thing is bad. Which is obviously
not true. Unfortunately, most good things have an upper limit to how good they can be,
while bad things can be deeply bad. And a potential pandemic brings that forth with
the spectre of death, the simultaneous murder of every future you that would have been and
you could have been. So for risk calculations, that's like a negative infinity? Which really
complicates things, because death looms everywhere. To live life is to constantly risk death,
often with hilariously unbalanced calculations of you getting some tiny reward versus death
getting to negative infinity you. But there are no solutions, only trade-offs. And with
normal life, the trade-off is you try to ignore death in the banal decisions of your day-to-day
which lets you live life, but the risk is you can become oblivious to normal seeming
things that are really quite deadly. And with a potential new global pandemic out in the
fog, there are a lot of normal seeming things that might turn out to be really quite deadly.
Unfortunately, the information you need about that is also out there in the fog of the future.
Then when infection vectors and transmission rates and lethality and long-term complications
are known, the decision will have been easy and you won't have under or overreacted. But
it's now, and you don't know. There are risks and there are rewards. Everyone's
calculation will be different, but here's how it went for us. On my summer calendar
were a lot of family visits and interesting and unique opportunities that were not replaceable.
Losing those, not good. But for my work, the loner I am, the better it usually goes. And
personally, getting to wipe from my calendar every social obligation without hesitation
or condemnation is not exactly a sacrifice. Meanwhile, the Lady Grey is at unusually
high risk of exactly this sort of pandemic mortality. Normal flu season is already not
fun for us, and this sort of thing potentially looming should make the calculation super
clear for Castle Grey. Lockdown early, lockdown long. But even for us, while we went into
lockdown before our friends, it was still later than we should have in retrospect. Why?
Well, it's that damn fog of the future again. Information at the very start was uncertain
and contradictory. Is this another flu? Well, every flu season is a risk for us, but we
don't lockdown our lives for four months a year, every year, because that's too much
of a trade-off. And with this, we felt a bit silly being the first ones to pull up the
drawbridge and cancel all our plans. Looking back now, it looks like reckless delay, but
of course, that's biased by the information current us now have. And at the time of writing,
we're facing the reverse problem. Lots of people are out and about as though life is
back to normal, and there's pressure to accept invitations and opportunities. But we've learned
from the past about feeling silly, and for us, the risk-reward calculation makes it clear
that we still mustn't be too hasty to lower the drawbridge. That's the way for Castle
Grey, but an individual case can be easy in a way the civilizational case is not. So for
that, let's discuss a theoretical global pandemic, not this particular global pandemic, and how
countries have to make decisions under the fog of the future, multiplied by millions
of people. So is that a new global pandemic on the path? It's a little hard to see. Maybe
it's another annual flu, which kills just a quarter to half million people a year, or
maybe it's another Spanish flu that kills 25 to 50 million. Or maybe it's that once
in a millennia plague, 100 to 200 million. Those are big risks, so countries should lock
down immediately, right? Well, lockdowns are used because they're better at slowing a plague
than nothing, but impermeable they are not. A good lockdown is best spent to buy time
to work out better treatments, which, if a country locks down early and hard enough,
and a treatment comes, that lockdown might save millions from the next plague, assuming
it is a plague. But a hard lockdown will damage the economy. Now, you might think the economy
is the moneyed class checking their stocks on their smartphones, which it is. But it's
also a measure of everything humans do that other humans value enough to pay for, which
is a lot, and includes the people and companies and governments working on better treatments,
and all the people and companies and governments they depend on to be able to do that job.
National lockdown guarantees large economic harm immediately, and the downward curve of
that harm accelerates. So a country needs to weigh that known harm against an upwardly
accelerating curve of death, or potential death. Because even in this video, this way
of talking about a potential pandemic and drawing it out in the fog is too clear. In
reality, there's uncertain stories in a faraway place about how a dozen people might be sick
from something maybe new. Based on that, if you were in charge of a country, would you
press the lockdown button and cause guaranteed economic harm immediately? I don't know.
And of course, there isn't a lockdown button. That's, again, just a simplified way to talk
about the huge number of policy dials at hand. Which to turn up and which to turn down. Some
really matter, others don't. And you don't know which is which, and underneath they're
all interconnected in non-linear ways. Don't mess up. Oh, and keep in mind, you will be
judged not about how good the decision was at the time, given the knowledge and trade-offs
at the time, but you will be judged in the future by those looking backward, where there
is no fog, and it was just so clear and obvious what to do. How could you possibly have not
known that this was the next plague? Slash, there was nothing to worry about all along.
Decisions under uncertainty are hard. Okay, well that was fun. Now on to some possibly
tonally inappropriately chipper questions. Has lockdown affected Tumbleweed? I don't
know, but I don't doubt they're taking full advantage of the situation. How much do you
think the world will change because of lockdown? Long term, not a lot? It's easy when in the
middle of a storm to think, wow, this is going to change everything forever. But when the
weather clears, people just go back to their regular lives, and it's always, dear Princess
Celestia, I didn't learn a thing. I mean, that's often the best case. What surprised
me most, but really shouldn't have, is how little time it took for the pandemic to go
from, this is a humanity scale problem we must solve as a global humanity, to fracturing
in the usual, tiresome ways with two groups each creating a totem they can yell about
how the other side is not just dumb, but maliciously evil, which is very helpful. So I guess I
actually expect the next time round it will be worse because everyone living through this
pandemic now will have picked their pandemic tribe when before they didn't have one. What
do you miss most about going outside? Taking a walk is really useful. Stuck on a problem
or feeling anxious or just need a break? A little walk is the perfect solution in a way
a treadmill desk just can't replicate. Even with a VR helmet. I've tried. How do you feel
about the state of VR? I bought my first set at the start of this lockdown and it was one
of the best decisions I've ever made. VR Done Well is truly a new medium to add to the list
of film and books and even traditional gaming. It's just such a distinct experience, and
especially when inside for weeks or months on end, it's pretty good at tricking your
brain into thinking you've gone somewhere else. The technology was overhyped for two
decades, but this is the start of something real and virtual reality, along with augmented
reality, is something I am pumped to see improve over the next two decades. What's the fifth
most important station on Spaceship U? The coffee station, obviously. What about lockdown
do you enjoy the most? It's an amazing feeling of freedom to have a completely empty calendar.
It makes me think of the end of the school year, both as a student and teacher. So excited
to leave the pseudo prison and all its pointless busy work and obligations. The structure of
the human-imposed world fading away, leaving me alone to be alone. But summer can only
be a season long. Eventually, school and its torturous tedium would return. And so it goes
with pandemic season. The human-imposed world will return, but the interregnum is nice.
How will lockdown affect education in the future? Well, I think primary and secondary
school at least will be pretty unaffected, as we all jointly agree to pretend their primary
purpose is education, not babysitification. But I think this quarantine has made plain
some of the necessary lies of civilization around education, particularly higher education.
But I leave what those are as an exercise for the viewer, for now. Your Spaceship U
video made it seem like you have it all sorted in these strange times. How sorted would you
say you feel? Have you broken any of your rules? Well, I feel pretty sorted, but I've
been preparing for this my whole life, so I'm in a fortunate situation. However, part
of the reason I made the Spaceship U video is because I was thinking of my younger self.
When I first moved to London, I had college loans, no income, no job prospects, no social
contacts, no real plans, just a room and shared accommodations. Those first few months in
London were hard, and had a global lockdown occurred then, it would have been a dark situation.
So that video was a bit of a message in a bottle for my younger self of, hey, here's
a bunch of stuff that will work for you. Do this and save yourself years of figuring it
out. Because, spoiler, Spaceship U isn't just a way to think about lockdown, it's
a way to think about your whole life. Now, obviously, my past self doesn't exist because
the past doesn't exist, so I can't send him a message. But human personality matrices
are limited in possibility, so there are guaranteed to be lots of similar people who would be
similarly receptive. As for the second part, the rules get broken, but I don't call them
rules in the video on purpose. They're targets. And the thing about a target is, no matter
how good you are, no one hits the bullseye every time. A target is about taking aim.
Have you actually placed colorful tape around the house to mark your zones? No, but I did
buy paint to make my office dark blue, the color I most associate with important work.
It's the best way for me to make this part of my apartment feel as different from the
rest as possible. What's the best board game for family quarantine time? Oh, why Settlers
of Catan, of course. If you haven't tried it, you really should. If you were a virus,
what would your goal be? To become irreplaceably symbiotic. Hitching a ride on the future of
humanity is a better path to long-term survival than killing your host. Viruses don't make
plans, they just are, but they do tend to become less fatal over time for this very
reason. Has the lockdown affected your schedule? Oh yes, has it. I've made a calendaring discovery
so great, so monumental, I've pulled it out of this Q&A because I want to propagandize
it as far and wide as possible. What home-based exercises have given you the most benefit?
Without a doubt, weights. It's simple and has the best return on investment. I don't
like exercise, I never have, but a little set of weights have a lot going for them.
You can start way easy and make spreadsheetable progress quickly. Get yourself some dumbbells
and a pull-up bar and you have maybe 65% the benefits of a gym without having to leave
home. Are handshakes gone for good? I hope so, but doubt it. I can only say they're gone
for good for me. Has lockdown impacted your projects? Oh yes. So last year I started working
on videos for a playlist called Grey Goes Outside and I had a really big Summer of Grey
planned for some videos that were going to go on there and trips related to current projects
and new places to visit and try to show people. But then, yeah, global pandemic. My lockdown
question for everyone has been, when do you think you will next get on an airplane? I'm
curious for everyone's answers because I don't know what the answer is for myself.
How long will it be before I can visit an interesting place? I just don't know. The
fog of the future at this moment in time is just too dense. But I'll put that playlist
up on the screen now if you too are in lockdown and need a bit of vicarious outside viewing.
See you next time, internet. Stay safe.
You